# Diagnosing-Pneumonia-with-Chest-Radiographs-through-Convolutional-Neural-Networks
The objective of this project is to predict whether pneumonia exists in a given image. We do so by predicting bounding boxes around areas of the lung. As reading is increasingly important for diagnosing the disease, we believe our project is tremendously helpful in terms of applying deep learning to reading medical images. To get started, we obtained two sets of data: one is unstructured and graphic and the other is a structured data frame. Both of the two datasets comprise 26,684 observations. Before we train the model, we split the model into training, validation and test datasets in a proportion of 7:2:1. We also set a cutoff point of 0.4 with an optimal function. Following that, we built four models with 2 in gray scale and 2 in an automatic color channel. Among the four models, Model 4 turns out the best results with a precision value of 96% and a F1 score of 89%.
By comparing the model architectures, we find that a few parameters play critical roles. We decreased from 128 to 32, and the accuracy increased by 1-2%. Second, we recommend the kernel sized at 3*3 pixels given the reduced pixels of each image after being processed. Third, the max pooling is better to be maintained at 2*2 pixels and could be enlarged to 3*3 in the layer before being flattened. Fourth, we shouldn’t set too high a dropout because of underfitting. We decreased the dropout from 0.5 to 0.2, and the accuracy increased by around 3-4%. At last, an optimal batch size should be set around 30-50. Either exceeding or being underneath this range would affect the performance of the established architecture.
As per the constraint of the project, we would attribute it to the limit of computational capacity of our laptops. If we could maintain the full size for each image and achieve a higher clarity, we believe that the accuracy will also be significantly improved with better defined layers. Overall, we hold that we have accomplished the objective we set when we started the project. The selected model could be immediately put into use and is expected to reduce reading 60% less of the chest radiographs.
